#summary High-level overview of the GUIProtocol software package.

= Purpose and Description =

The GUIProtocol package is intended to centralize the nature of the packages and the flow of communication between the IOServer and the AndroidGUI packages. Since the IOServer and AndroidGUI communicate over the network, much of the GUIProtocol package will be concerned with serialization from high-level data objects to and from low-level streams, which can be easily transferred via TCP/IP over the network.

The events sent from the IOServer to the AndroidGUI will be occurrences that need to inform the GUI that its display needs to change and update itself to give its user a better understanding of what the current state of the game is. These events will be generated from various other modules within the same application as the IOServer, which include the GameModel, FireEmitterModel and possibly GestureRecognizer packages. 
 For example, a player's life changes from 100% to 90%, when this happens the GameModel will raise an     
 event, the IOServer will be listening for that event and when received it will create a package to represent 
 it using the structures in the GUIProtocol package and then send the event over the network to the 
 AndroidGUI, which will also use the GUIProtocol to interpret the incoming packages and update its 
 Graphical User Interface (GUI).

The events sent from the AndroidGUI to the IOServer will be occurrences of user interaction with the mobile GUI that will change the current state of the game by executing commands on the various modules running within the IOServer's application. These events will be generated by the AndroidGUI and sent to the IOServer where they will be forwarded as commands to the GameModel, FIreEmitterModel and GestureRecognizer packages.

 For example, the ring master pushes a button in the GUI to start the next round of the game, the event 
 raised in the AndroidGUI when the button is pressed causes a package to be created from the GUIProtocol 
 package and then sent to the IOServer over the network. Upon being received by the IOServer, the 
 package is interpretted by the GUIProtocol package and understood to be a command to the GameModel. 
 The command is forwarded to the GameModel, which triggers a change in the internal state of the 
 GameModel and starts the next round of the game.


= Interface =

The interface for the GUIProtocol will consist of a set of publicly available objects that wrap up the events and commands found in the GameModel, FireEmitterModel and GestureRecognizer packages. Having these wrapped up so that they can easily be transferred across the network will allow the GUI in the AndroidGUI to react to the various events in the game and the IOServer to react to (by forwarding to the various other packages) any commands sent from the GUI.


= Interactions and Dependencies =

=== IOServer depends on GUIProtocol ===

The IOServer will need to turn all the events that its listening to into data objects that are appropriate for transferring over the network to the AndroidGUI. The GUIProtocol package will provide the functionality for doing this as well as provide the various functionality required to represent the lower level TCP/IP header and body packages and the flow control of the protocol used to communicate. Furthermore, the IOServer will also need to decipher incoming packages from the AndroidGUI so that they can be read as TCP/IP packages and converted back into high-level objects for interpretation in other modules.

=== AndroidGUI depends on GUIProtocol ===

On the other side of the communication, the AndroidGUI will also be performing many of the same/similar operations as the IOServer when making use of the GUIProtocol. It will need to listen for incoming packages and convert them into high-level data for events in the GUI and it will also need to turn high-level GUI events into packages to send over the network to the IOServer.
